Welcome back.
So the next property we're learning about is called Flex wrap and all it does is it allows us to specify
if the items in a flex container have to stay on a single line or if they can be wrapped into more than
one line.
So for example to make more sense let's make our boxes a lot larger.
Because right now they actually fit into a single line a single row.
OK but if we made them 300 pixels wide then we should only be able to fit a couple on a single line.
But actually this is kind of strange.
These are supposed to be 300 pixels.
What's going on.
These aren't 300 pixels.
Let me show you.
Take this back to Roe.
So they all fit here so let's say I want to make them much larger if I go up to my box styles.
Let's make them have a wealth of something even much bigger 500 pixels.
Those are not 500 pixels.
What if I made them 1000 pixels or something crazy for I don't know 4500 as you can see.
I've hit this maximum point where it's like Xbox because I made this a flex container saying no no no
I'm not gonna do that for you.
I have to keep everything in a single line here.
So I'm just going to make things as big as I can but I'm not going to make them any bigger.
So rather than doing 4500 which is massive let's do 300.
Why not.
So that brings us to our property flex rap flex rap.
If we add that to our container it's like rap colon rap.
The default value by the way is no rap.
So we usually don't have to play with that unless you've somehow maybe using javascript turned it off
and turn it back on.
But definitely it's just something you should know.
The default is no rap.
But if we set it to wrap our content now goes on two separate lines and it grows to the size the width
that we specified.
So let me show you that I said 300 pixels but it's obviously not 300 pixels.
But if I do flex wrap colon wrap and save.
You can see hopefully that it grew and it's much larger than it used to be.
And it almost takes up two full lines.
Now that we've allowed it to wrap and I can change the width to 500 and it will make as many rows as
it needs.
In this case three rows.
And they all fit pretty nicely.
So that's the basics of flex wrap using Roe but what about Roe reverse.
Does that change anything.
Not really just the order is different.
So one two three and then it starts wrapping here four five six.
Remember the main axis goes this way.
And then they go downwards because the cross axis goes from top to bottom.
Which brings me to the next thing I want to show you to bring this back to row which is a third value
rap dash reverse.
And what this will do is it allows it to wrap but it changes the start and end of the cross axis.
So instead of having the cross axes starting appear and moving downwards so that all subsequent rows
are below it actually does the opposite where all subsequent rows are above.
So if we change this to rapid dash reverse you'll see that the main access is still left to right.
But now our roads go upward.
So we start at the bottom and go upwards and we can combine that with road reverse.
Now we got a lot of axes to to keep straight.
We have our main access going from right to left.
One two three four five six seven eight nine.
And our cross axis going from bottom to top.
So when we wrap those rows are going upwards.
So you may have guessed this but we can also do the exact same thing if we're working with a column
instead of a row.
The only problem really is that by just making it a column we don't actually have a with on this container
so there isn't any wrapping happening.
So let me just make this regular rock sort of wrap reverse.
They just keep going.
There is no limit like there was with the side of the screen that forced our items to wrap.
In this case we can just keep adding on.
So what I could do is give our container a max height or just a height we could do something like VHF
100 Vage if you're familiar with that viewport height.
Basically as this grows this is 100 VH whatever we're able to see on the screen at that time.
Or you could give it a pixel value as well let's say 800 pixels if you wanted.
And we have these columns that are wrapping.
So we have one two three four five.
It can't fit the next one.
So it wraps six seven eight nine.
Don't worry about the spacing if they are centered or not centered anything like that.
Those are future properties we'll be learning.
But just the fact that we can have a column that wraps.
So in this case our main axis goes from top to bottom.
And our cross axis goes from left to right.
Remember this is where we start.
And then it wraps to the second row and then third if necessary.
And so on.
So we could do the same thing by doing column dash reverse and this case our main Access starts down
here.
One two three four five and then it wraps over here.
And yes we can do wrap reverse.
And now our main axis goes top to bottom excuse me bottom to top and our cross axis goes right to the
left.
OK.
A lot of combinations there.
But the key takeaway is that there's a cross axis.
There's a main axis understanding those is really going to help you visualize how things work.
Flex direction allows us to specify how content and move along that main axis if it's left to right
right to left top to bottom bottom to top and flex wrap allows us to specify if content should wrap
onto a second row or second column.
In this case or however many subsequent rows are columns not just two.
OK.
So that wraps up flex wrap.
Oh gosh.
OK.